A MyBroadband staff member recently tried to renew their vehicle licence disc through government’s official Natis Online (or eNatis) system and gave up due to technical issues. The Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) launched the online platform in February 2022, and seeing as my licence disc expired this month, I thought I’d give it a go — much to my detriment. The issues started right off the bat, where the login credentials I had set earlier this year wouldn’t work. Thinking I had forgotten the correct details, I attempted to reset my password. However, this also returned an error. My last resort was to use the “Forgot Username?” option, which produced the message “Internal Server Error Occured”. Frustrated with the experience, I reached out to Natis’ customer support. To my surprise, I received a response shortly after submitting my support request. “Kindly note that we are experiencing technical issues with the website, our technicians are working on it and should be resolved soon,” the response read. “We unfortunately are unsure when will the issues be resolved however we are hard at it. We humbly apologise for the inconvenience.” Given the response from the support agent, I decided to wait a couple of hours before attempting to log in again. I was able to log in with no problems upon my second attempt. However, this was not where the issues ended. After logging in, I selected the licence disc renewal option and double-checked that the information Natis had recorded for my vehicle was correct. The platform then takes you to the delivery options page — of which the only choice is delivery by courier — and prompts you to enter a delivery address. Upon launch, the RTMC’s chief executive officer Makhosini Msibi said that motorists would have the option to have their renewed licence disc delivered or collect it from a testing centre. However, the only option the system presented was to have the licence disc delivered via a courier. This meant I had no choice but to pay the additional R99 delivery fee. Biting the bullet, I hit the pay button, which immediately returned the error “could not execute statement; nested exception is org.hibernate.exception.GenericJDBCException: could not execute statement”. After a couple of hours of waiting, I was still unable to make payment and gave up. Notably, I was able to submit my renewal application through PayCity for the same price — including delivery — within 15 minutes.