In recent surveys, network administrators and IT managers cited the following top issues with their existing firewall: When selecting a shortlist for your next firewall, it can be challenging to even know where to start. You’ll want to begin by identifying your key requirements. Once you’ve established those, it’s a daunting task to wade through vendor websites and datasheets to determine which firewall can not only meet your needs, but actually does what it claims. “Sophos has compiled a guide that will help users you to choose the right solution for your organisation so you don’t end up with firewall buyer’s remorse.” “It covers all the features and capabilities you should consider when evaluating your next firewall purchase”. “These are We’ve also included important questions to ask your IT partner or vendor to ensure the product will meet your needs,” says Andre Kannemeyer – CTO at Duxbury Networking, local distributors of Sophos technology. Ever-increasing encrypted traffic flows have created a perfect storm – with dire consequences. Consider these important facts: “When we ask organisations why they are not inspecting encrypted traffic, they cite performance as the number one reason.” “TLS inspection is simply too resource intensive for most firewalls to keep up with the huge volume of encrypted traffic.” “The second major reason for not inspecting encrypted traffic. It tends to cause usability issues; it breaks the internet,” says Kannemeyer. This fundamental challenge with encryption and an inability to address it by most firewalls is creating a variety of other issues: visibility into risky behaviour and content, compliance, and protection from ransomware, attacks, and breaches. In effect, encryption is the root cause of many of today’s top network security challenges. Unfortunately, most networks are simply turning a blind eye to most of the traffic passing through them. This is no longer necessary. There is a very effective way to deal with this challenge. To solve your top challenges with network visibility, protection, and response to threats, here are four must-have critical capabilities you need in your next firewall, that are likely missing today: These four capabilities will ensure the top problems with your current firewall will be a thing of the past, and power your network protection well into the future.  Provides visibility into the growing volume of encrypted traffic traversing networks   Protection from the latest unknown threats using machine learning and sandboxing  Offloading trusted application traffic to a FastPath to improve performance and reduce overhead  Integration is essential to provide adequate layered protection and sharing of information across products for a response to threats or for forensic investigations and threat hunting For more information contact Duxbury Networking, +27 (0) 11 351 9800, info@duxnet.co.za, www.duxbury.co.za