Women think about safety a lot. All the time in fact. They think about safety when their phones ring, when a dog barks in the middle of the night, when getting dressed in the morning, when they are in their driveways, on the road, stopped at traffic lights, at home, at petrol stations, in traffic, at shopping malls, restaurants, while commuting, walking, jogging or running. It’s a constant. They turn their car keys into weapons and check their phones, waiting for the ticks to turn blue – a sign that their loved one got home, safely. There’s good reason why so much of a woman’s time is spent thinking about safety. According to the most recent SAPS crime statistics – the first three months of 2022 (January to March) was “brutal” for women. Murder, attempted murder and the assault of women all recorded double-digit increases. 898 women were murdered and 13 799 sexual offences were reported to SAPS – 10 818 were cases of rape. Now, just imagine what women could do, would do, if they just felt safer. They would live more. Fearlessly. 1st for Women is the only insurer that is dedicated to putting women’s safety 1st with car, home, business and building policies that come equipped with: Free and Unlimited Trip Monitoring: With this benefit, customers will be contacted every 30 minutes to check that they are still safely en route to their destination. If that contact is interrupted, a loved one will be informed, and the time and location of their last communication will be shared with them. Guardian Angels on Call: This dedicated fleet of Guardian Angels keep 1st for Women customers safe on the roads 24/7. A Guardian Angel will be dispatched to either assist with a mechanical breakdown, a flat battery or flat tyre, or to “guard” the customer until help arrives with the “Stand by Me” service. The 1st for Women Foundation: Established in 2005, the 1st for Women Foundation is committed to uplifting and supporting South African women, in particular those affected by woman abuse. With the support of its customers, the Foundation has raised over R90 million for woman abuse causes, making a tangible and sustainable difference to the lives of over 95 000 women and counting. Panic Button: Available through the 1st for Women app, it assists with alerting external help during any emergency situation where a woman feels unsafe. Help is available 24/7 and it can be used from anywhere in South Africa. This is just the beginning. 1st for Women thinks about safety as much as women do and puts it 1st in everything it does. Because, a safer you is a fearless you. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> Click here to learn more about 1st for Women.