MTN customers looking to terminate their device contracts early pay a modest termination fee compared to other mobile networks. South African consumers who sign up for long-term contracts are not forced to stay with a network until that agreement’s expiry. According to the Consumer Protection Act (CPA), any mobile subscriber is allowed to end their cellular contract prematurely under certain conditions. Firstly, they need to provide 20 business days’ notice in writing or recorded form, such as via an email or call to a cancellations department. Secondly, they should be aware that the mobile network would be entitled to charge a “reasonable” penalty fee for the cancellation. The parameters for calculating such a fee are fairly broad, with the CPA stating operators should take the following elements into account: MTN explains its cancellation procedure in detail on its website. Per the CPA, it requires 20 business days’ notice to process a contract cancellation. Customers must call 135 from an MTN number to go through the process or can send an email to retentions@mtn.com with their cancellation request. For the cancellation of an MTN contract, the following charges will apply: The big benefit of MTN’s approach is that it exempts customers from paying a cancellation fee relating to the subscription fee itself. Vodacom and Cell C charge a cancellation fee as a portion of the total outstanding subscription value, while Telkom charges the full remaining value of the entire subscription in addition to an administration fee. We used the example of a 24-month Mega XS Gigs package with a Samsung Galaxy A53 5G for R429 per month to illustrate the cost of cancelling a contract compared to sticking it out. On this package, the device fee on its own makes up R294 of the price, while the plan contributes R135 per month. We considered four scenarios for when a subscriber might want to cancel their contract — 18 months, 12 months, six months, and three months before expiry. For the first three options, the settlement amount on a cancellation worked out to be cheaper than continuing with the contract. The table below shows what you can expect to pay when you cancel your MTN contract at various points before expiry.