Anti-fraud cybersecurity firm Evina and the Wireless Application Service Providers Association (Waspa) have partnered to identify the most significant vulnerabilities in South Africa’s mobile value chain. “South Africa is a major economy at the forefront of the latest developments in mobile payments,” said Evina CEO David Lotfi. “One of the main advantages of a young and dynamic economy like this is that it can easily benefit from cutting-edge technologies such as Direct Carrier Billing.” Direct Carrier Billing (DCB) is an online mobile payment method designed to let users make purchases by charging their airtime or cellphone bills. “At the same time, being at the cutting edge also means facing new threats,” Lotfi warned. “We were particularly concerned in 2020 and estimated that almost one in three subscriptions made via DCB payments in SA were fraudulent.” Lotfi said they also found that frauds that had already been identified up to five years ago and could be easily combated — such as clickjacking — had not been. “This situation was unacceptable for the end consumer and for players in the DCB sector,” Lotfi stated. Clickjacking is a form of fraud where crooks use malicious code on a webpage to subscribe you to shady subscription services that steal airtime from your account daily. These rogue wireless application service providers (Wasps) have stolen billions from South Africans over the last decade without as a much as a criminal case against them. According to Lotfi, Evina’s partnership with Waspa mean that, in the short term, the association is enabled to act as a whistle-blower and mediator with the relevant players. “Evina’s BrandProtect technology is now able to help Waspa identify bad traffic sources that create unwanted subscriptions and thus customers complaints,” stated Lotfi. “[It] is then able to suggest to the relevant players that they clean up their ad spending and ultimately improve their brand image and reputation, while also saving money.” Lotfi said this is a vital first step in protecting DCB technology in South Africa. “In the medium term, this will undoubtedly enable Waspa to coordinate the response of all the players facing fraud in the DCB market — merchants, payment aggregators and operators.” However, he added that this is just a first level of security. “Misleading ads and bad traffic sources are only one part of the problem,” Lotfi said. “Payment pages must also be protected with real-time transaction validation solutions capable of blocking any fraudulent payment attempt. We have achieved this with Vodacom, which now protects its users very effectively with DCBprotect.” Waspa managing executive Ilonka Badenhorst said that DCB is incredible technology. She said it offers frictionless payment paths, unique conversion rates far superior to those of the credit card, and the ability to pay to unbanked or underbanked people. “Protecting it effectively means allowing it to fully deploy its strengths and take advantage of the growth it offers,” stated Badenhorst. “It is important for all in this industry to understand that as the number of protected players increases, so does the overall security and trust in the DCB technology. After all, a chain is only as strong as its weakest link.” Badenhorst said there is an undeniable competitive issue at play too. “As operators, payment aggregators, and merchants protect themselves by installing real-time transaction validation solutions and gain privileged partnerships that allow them to increase their flows, the unprotected players find themselves alone to be affected by fraud,” she said. “The fraudsters, in turn, redouble their efforts on them, which further degrades their brand image and deprives them of key partnerships.”