African Rainbow Capital’s (ARC’s) interim results for the six months ended 31 December 2021 revealed that it values Rain at R16.6 billion, an increase of R287 million over the last six months. The increased valuation is partly thanks to the mobile operator’s strong performance. It is on track to exceed its budgeted R1 billion EBITDA for the year ended February 2022. “This achievement is viewed as exemplary considering that Rain achieved breakeven only in the last 12 months,” ARC said. ARC and Rain shareholders would be pleased to know that the excellent performance is expected to continue. The mobile operator continues to experience strong demand for its products as Covid-19 restrictions are relaxed, and employees return to their offices for work. Rain’s growing footprint partly drives the continued demand. Its 5G coverage is expanding to more towns while also increasing its coverage in metros. Durban is one of the areas where Rain started to roll out 5G at the end of 2021. It is expected to have achieved significant coverage in the city by the end of Q2 2022. Another positive development is that Rain secured additional spectrum in the recent auction held by industry regulator Icasa. Rain’s successful bids, which cost R1.15 billion, include 10MHz in the 700 MHz band and 10 MHz in the 2.6GHz band. The operator also participated in the main-stage spectrum auction, which may give it even more spectrum, but these results have not yet been released. The additional spectrum will significantly enhance Rain’s competitiveness and bodes well for its prospects. Early Rain investors, who include South African business royalty like Paul Harris, Michael Jordaan, and Willem Roos, added billions to their wealth from Rain’s success. To appreciate the masterstroke by these investors, you have to turn the clock back to 2015 when they acquired iBurst owner WBS. At the time, iBurst was struggling, and WBS shareholders were tired of continually putting in more money to fund the loss-making company. WBS planned to roll out an LTE network for years, but they could not secure investment with their business case. Considering Cell C’s struggles at the time, it was hard to imagine a fifth mobile operator competing effectively against Vodacom and MTN. Unlikely many others, Harris and Jordaan realised the potential of WBS’s spectrum assets. Instead of trying to fund and build a network on their own, they partnered with Vodacom through a unique business agreement. They signed a roaming agreement where Vodacom subscribers can roam on Rain’s new network, providing better coverage and less congestion. In return, Vodacom helped Rain build a national 4G network by giving them access to their infrastructure. The roaming agreement also helped Rain to fund its network rollout. This mutually beneficial arrangement helped Rain build a national 4G network with very little debt. It, therefore, circumvented the biggest reason for Cell C’s troubles. This bet paid off handsomely. Eight years on, Rain has extensive 4G and 5G networks, and a rapidly growing subscribe base. Taking a risk on WBS and building Rain into a successful data provider came with significant financial rewards to Rain shareholders. According to a 2020 ICASA filing, Rain currently has ten shareholders, with the top 5 owning over 90% of the company. The largest shareholders include investment vehicles owned by Paul Harris, Patrice Motsepe, Willem Roos, and Michael Jordaan. The table below provides an overview of Rain’s shareholders and an estimate of the value of their funds.