With the internet coming through leaps and bounds and opening up access for a wider group of people to connect and enjoy IP convergence, smart homes are fast becoming the new normal. The vision: To have all the products in your home perfectly orchestrated and working in unison to bring you a home experience like no other. Start building your innovative home project with high quality wireless smart home audio. Our home audio systems hold significant meaning. Whether entertaining our guests, watching our favourite series or simply mellowing out after a long day, we always turn to our audio system. It’s here, in this comfortable space, that MiRO recognised an opportunity to introduce one of the world’s leaders in intelligent audio solutions – VSSL. VSSL produces innovative audio streaming amplifiers designed to stream music to home systems, allowing multiple rooms to play in complete unison with various user playlists connected and playing simultaneously. VSSL offers a seamless user experience by providing users with voice command capabilities that support your trusted music apps (no 3rd party apps needed!) This is all due to its built-in features such as Airplay2, Spotify Connect, Chromecast built-in and Alexa Cast, just to name a few. No need to lift a finger; just simply use voice commands to control your home audio system and play your favourite music through any device from anywhere in the house. VSSL amplifies all types of home speakers, from ceiling to high-end bookshelf speakers – making it all work together to create a more comfortable, convenient and enjoyable home. MiRO offers you the best of VSSL through the X Series, an unbeatable range of amplifiers designed to provide users with complete audio control. The X Series comprises three amplifiers; the VSSL A.1X, a single-zoned and 2-channel amplifier with built-in Wi-Fi, and the Wi-Fi capable VSSL A.3X, which covers three zones and 6-channels and lastly, the six-zoned and 12-channel  VSSL A.6X amplifier. Soundvision Technologies designs and manufactures a full-line of premium audio products. The company is headquartered in Hurricane, Utah with warehouse locations in the Netherlands and Atlanta, Georgia. Soundvision is constantly on the cutting edge of audio innovation with its VSSL and TruAudio brands and raises the bar with its streaming, amplification and speaker designs. Since its beginnings, established in 1999, the company believes every person should hear audio the way it was meant to be experienced. Together, VSSL and TruAudio offer a compelling audio solution that supports mobile devices and apps such as Alexa and Siri, making it easy for users to use their exclusive Native Streaming and voice command prompts to deliver a fully immersive home automation system. Smart home and audiovisual installers can add this great smart audio solution to their portfolio by visiting MiRO or contacting MiRO on 012 657 0960. Alternatively, you can send them an email at sales@miro.co.za. With an extensive range of online payment options, you can turn your customer’s smart home dream into a reality today!