Eskom has revealed that several municipalities in the Free State have not paid their bills and owe the power utility R16 billion. According to a statement from the power utility, 16 municipalities in the province owe it money — one of which is the Mangaung Metropolitan municipality which governs Bloemfontein and its surrounds. The R16 billion owed by Free State municipalities makes up 4% of Eskom’s accumulative debt — R392 billion. According to Eskom, these municipalities receive government grants and payments from their customers. Despite this, they have not paid. “The Municipalities and Metropolitan receive government grants and payment for services rendered from their loyal customers, but these amounts remain unpaid for the consumed energy to Eskom,” it said. “This behaviour threatens the security of supply to the citizens residing in these supply areas, as Eskom cannot continue to maintain its infrastructure and supply electricity for free.” The power utility ranked the defaulting municipalities in terms of debt accumulated with Eskom: Eskom explained that the three municipalities with the highest debt — Maluti A Phofung, Matjhabeng, and Ngwathe — consume an average of R200 million (97GWh) of energy monthly. These three municipalities owe Eskom R12.5 billion, or 78% of the province’s total debt. The general manager for the CentralEast Cluster, which includes KwaZulu-Natal and the Free State, explained the impact of non-payment on Eskom. “Municipalities have a constitutional responsibility and duty, not only to Eskom but to their customers, to fulfil their financial obligations for the bulk supply of electricity so that Eskom can, in turn, meet its obligations,” she said. “The total outstanding municipal debt of R16 billion in Free State continue to threaten Eskom’s commitment to ensure continuity of supply and the ability to maintain the network.” “We thank those municipalities in the province that prioritise their Eskom account payment,” she added. In a situation where Eskom is already struggling to maintain its infrastructure, non-payment by municipalities puts a further burden on the power utility’s revenue stream.