Transport minister Fikile Mbalula has revealed that his department plans to introduce a digital driver’s licence card (eDL) in the 2024/25 financial year. Responding to parliamentary questions, Mbalula said that the introduction of the eDL would follow the implementation of a new driver’s licence card. “The introduction of the digital driving licence (commonly referred to as the eDL) will be preceded by the introduction of the new driving licence card, which is set to be launched in October 2023,” he wrote. He added that the design process for the new driver’s licence card had been completed and that the department is waiting for approval from Cabinet. Mbalula said that the DLCA — which currently produces South Africa’s driver’s licences — would be responsible for the eDL project. With the introduction of the eDL, motorists will be able to choose between applying for a physical card or an electronic licence. The eDL will be accessible through motorists’ smartphones. Indications that the DLCA would be working to implement an electronic driver’s licence in South Africa first appeared in its 2021/22 annual performance plan. Mbalula announced that South Africa would be getting new driver’s licence cards in January 2022, following the breakdown of the country’s only licence printing machine. The two-decade-old driver’s licence card machine broke down on 7 November 2021 and was subsequently sent to Germany for repairs. A substantial backlog of driver’s licence applications formed while the machine was out of commission. Mbalula’s solution was to redesign South Africa’s driver’s licence system and replace the current machine with a newer model. According to the Driving Licence Card Account (DLCA), the new licence cards will be aligned with international practices and incorporate new technologies. It added that the project would allow for the adoption of digital technologies such as blockchain and other related technologies, forming the platform for an integrated transport system. “The introduction of the new driving licence involves a new design of the driving licence card and the re-engineering of processes to allow for agility and focus on delivering services efficiently and quickly,” it said. Mbalula said that the only hurdle to introducing the revamped driver’s licence and procuring a new card printer is obtaining Cabinet approval — for which it is still waiting.