Etion Connect has evolved with its customers over the past 12 years – from mostly supplying copper-based solutions (which are now largely redundant), to fibre access and FTTX solutions. It has supported its major customers by supplying products for huge Multi-Service Access Nodes (MSAN) copper projects and supplied solutions for the first FTTH proof of concept projects in South Africa. Etion Connect has also assisted most fibre network operators (FNOs) in optimizing their networks to be more efficient, as well as reducing the total cost of ownership. It works with all the major FTTX infrastructure roll-out FNOs, MNOs, submarine cable operators, ISPs, and data centres, as well as strategic sourcing implementation partners and contractors who work within the telecoms value chain. These relationships make Etion Connect the telecoms industry’s premier value-added reseller of world class passive connectivity to significant capex telecoms build projects, supplying fibre guide systems, street cabinets, fibre enclosures, optical distribution frames, patch panels, manholes, data centre infrastructure and much more across the central office, inside and outside plant domains. The company was initially founded as Tedaka Technologies (Pty) Ltd, which was a strategic partner for ADC Krone, and incorporated well-established product brands such as Raychem for the Sub-Saharan Africa region. TE Connectivity then acquired ADC Krone, and with this acquisition came a whole new portfolio of quality fibre products that it could offer. Tedaka Technologies incorporated a services component into its already strong services offering with which it had assisted all the major mobile network operators in establishing many of their carrier data rooms. It then rebranded and renamed itself as Tedaka Network Solutions as testimony of its commitment to providing a professional service offering. TE Connectivity was acquired by CommScope, the world’s leading passive connectivity OEM that boasts a vastly diverse offering. At a similar time, Tedaka Network Solutions (TNS) was acquired by Ansys Limited, which rebranded to Etion Limited as the holding company of multiple technology subsidiaries. Tedaka became Etion Connect, forming part of the Etion group’s strategy to consolidate the business units under the Etion brand. Led by seasoned professionals, Etion Connect has extensive business experience and a comprehensive understanding of the political economy of the markets in which it operates. “We believe that it takes an unwavering commitment to our core values and the highest standards of ethics and integrity to serve our customers,” says Sammy Mafu, Managing Director of Etion Connect. “I am proud to lead a team with hundreds of years of telecoms sectoral experience, committing to always exceeding customer fulfilment expectations and creating shared value.” “We continue to provide our customers with tailored services such as on-site and in-class training, logistics planning, and design services that will optimize their network, and we can customize these products to meet the specific needs of our customers,” Mafu adds. “If you are already using fixed line fibre to the business or home, there is an 80% chance that Etion Connect’s world class passive connectivity infrastructure is powering it.” A Chartered Marketer by profession, Mafu served in executive capacities at FibreCo Telecommunications (now part of Seacom) and Broadband Infraco SoC, and was a founding member at Cell C where he helped to pioneer its first ventures into competitive disruption of entrenched incumbents through aggressive marketing and sales campaigns. Etion Connect can be reached on intsales@etion.co.za Or click here to find out more about Etion Connect.