The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) and South African banks plan to expand the availability of E-Home Affairs in the country, but it must first address several organisational issues. More importantly, Home Affairs still needs to sign off on its public-private partnership agreement. Responding to parliamentary questions, the home affairs minister Aaron Motsoaledi explained that one of the major issues was a lack of available staff. “Currently, the Civic Services team is under-capacitated across DHA Civic Services branches nationwide with no additional staff to send to the Banks,” he said. “This issue is applicable to all potential banks for further rollout of the service in question.” Further issues that need to be addressed include: Motsoaledi also explained that his department and prominent South African banks were yet to sign the relevant public-private partnership (PPP) because of these issues. He added that once the PPP sign-off was addressed, the department would have a clear way to initiate its rollout plan for E-Home Affairs expansion with participating banks. This would include organising human resources for Home Affairs desks within each new participating bank branch. Absa, FNB, Nedbank, and Standard Bank revealed their plans to expand their E-Home Affairs footprint substantially at the start of 2020. However, the initial plan was to complete the expansion by the end of 2020, and only Standard Bank was able to add E-Home Affairs capabilities to select branches during the year. A Nedbank spokesperson previously told MyBroadband that they were waiting on Home Affairs to finalise their partnership agreement. “There is big dependency on the Department of Home Affairs finalising a partnership agreement with participating banks that will see banks offering this service as part of their own operating models — using their own staff,” they said. “Currently, the [Home Affairs] appointed staff manage and operate dedicated areas within participating banks where they process appointments that are booked via the DHA website.” The system was designed so that South Africans need to be a client of the bank from which they want to collect their documents and book appointments. If your bank does not participate in the programme or does not have an E-Home Affairs branch near you, you will have to book your biometric data capture appointment at the best available Home Affairs office. Nedbank told MyBroadband that it was designed this way to ensure that no bank has a competitive advantage over others. “This decision was informed by the Department of Home Affairs,” Nedbank told MyBroadband. “This is how the appointment booking process is set up on the [E-Home Affairs] website. It’s the same process for all banks and ensures that it does not create a competitive advantage for any one bank.” Standard Bank told MyBroadband that it was mutually agreed upon between all participating banks when the E-Home Affairs proof-of-concept launched in 2015. One of South Africa’s largest banks, Capitec, is not participating in the E-Home Affairs expansion. It previously told MyBroadband that it wasn’t participating as its business model uses smaller premises to help keep fees low.