The Department of Communications and Digital Technologies (DCDT) and the Film and Publication Board (FPB) today welcomed President Cyril Ramaphosa’s proclamation that operationalised the Films and Publications Amendment Act on 1 March 2022. Ramaphosa signed the Films and Publications Amendment Act (FPA Act) into law in October 2019 and had been waiting for the president to set a commencement date. “The Amendment Act comes into operation at a time when governments all over the world are grappling with the escalation in potentially harmful content on digital platforms, as we witness the entrenchment of the Fourth Industrial Revolution in society,” said deputy communications minister Philly Mapulane. “Changes to the FPA Act seeks to modernise laws that protect the South African public from exposure to prohibited content distributed online, as well as exposure of children to harmful digital content that could have adverse psychological and behavioural impacts.” Mapulane said that laws are enacted to give effect to the rights enshrined in the constitution. “The FPA Act seeks to balance the right to freedom of expression with the responsibility to protect our citizens from harm and to maintain social cohesion.” The FPB said that revisions to the Act came about due to the significant changes in the way that films, games, and certain publications are distributed. This reflects the move away from physical distribution in cinemas and home DVDs to the online space, streaming services, and social media. The Act introduces the following important changes: Legal experts have warned that the sweeping powers granted to the FPB through the Act are ripe for abuse. Under the Act, anyone will be able to complain to the FPB about any “prohibited content” posted online, potentially abusing the definitions of hate speech and incitement of violence to silence speech they don’t like. The FPB has assured this won’t happen. It said it would be guided by the definitions established for “hate speech” and “incitement” by South Africa’s courts. It will also offer various mechanisms to appeal rulings handed down by its enforcement committee. “The Amendment Act is set to transform the FPB completely, expanding its mandate and migrating it from a simple classification authority to a fully-fledged regulator, with the legitimate powers to issue and renew licences (certificates), accredit distributors and impose fines, in case of non-compliance,” stated Zama Mkosi, Chairperson of the Film and Board Council “As an organization, we are up to the challenge. We are grateful for the Department of Communications & Digital Technologies for this futuristic legislation.” Mkosi said that they have regulations ready, but conceded they may have to “strengthen in this area”. “There is a process underway to appoint the enforcement committee introduced by section 3 of the Amendment Act,” Mkosi said. This enforcement committee provides for speedy resolutions in certain cases, including the issuing fines, she stated. “Of course, there will be cases where the FPB will work directly with our justice courts for prosecution.” The FPB’s acting CEO, Dr. Mashilo Boloka, said that the days of regulating the industry through will and agreements is over. “As the regulator, we now have sharp teeth to bite,” Boloka said.