Update: Minister Fikile Mbalula has announced an extension to the grace period for licence renewals by publishing a notice in the Government Gazette. Original report: Transport minister Fikile Mbalula has postponed the driver’s licence renewal deadline announcement, citing Cabinet commitments. Instead, he will reveal the Department of Transport’s decision once the grace period for driving licence renewals has already expired. The announcement was initially planned for today, the same day the deadline expires, but will now take place on Friday, 1 April 2022. Mbalula announced that he would address the media regarding an extension of the renewal deadline following warnings from the Automobile Association of South Africa (AA) and the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa). The AA warned that failure to extend the grace period would cause a substantial spike in traffic fines and potentially rejected car insurance claims. It explained that hundreds of thousands of motorists had yet to obtain booking slots to renew their driving licence cards. UPDATE ON LICENCE RENEWALS: We will on Friday, 01 April 2022 provide an update on the deadline for the Extension of Licence Validity. Today’s planned media engagement was postponed due to cabinet commitments.  pic.twitter.com/iNdLilSAoR — FIKILE MBALULA | MR FIX (@MbalulaFikile) March 31, 2022  Outa accountability head Stefanie Fick said that the organisation was considering a legal opinion that could lead to another civil disobedience campaign, adding that government should not start a war with citizens that it cannot win. She also explained that failure to extend the deadline could allow law enforcement officials to extort motorists. “The state cannot simply ignore this problem, as it will leave motorists at the mercy of overzealous or corrupt law enforcement officers who may use this as an opportunity to extort bribes from the motoring public,” she said. “These problems are largely due to difficulties in securing bookings through the online booking system forced onto motorists.” Mbalula implemented a grace period for licences that had expired between 26 March 2020 and 31 August 2021, which he subsequently extended to 31 March 2022. The minister explained that the grace period was set to help clear the backlog of 1.2 million licence renewal applications. However, as of February 2022, the logjam had reached 2.1 million.