Motorists renewing their driver’s licence before 31 March 2022 will get an additional three months’ grace on their expired licence card. However, the Department of Transport only expects to clear its licence renewal backlog six months from now, in September 2022. This was according to a transport department statement issued on Thursday, 24 March. The department did not explain what would happen in the three-month gap from 1 July to 30 September. It would appear that South Africans that followed the department’s instructions and applied before the deadline would still need to fork out for a temporary driver’s licence. Earlier this week, the department informed parliament that the backlog of licences that expire by 31 March stood at 2.1 million nationwide. The backlog at the end of January 2022 was also 2.1 million. To clear this backlog by September, the Driver’s Licence Card Account (DLCA) would need to produce 350,000 new cards each month, excluding the last-minute rush of applications expected before the deadline. The DLCA is an entity under the Department of Transport responsible for producing South Africa’s driving licence cards. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula previously said the DLCA could produce 400,000 cards a month. However, despite his claim, the backlog has not changed since January 2022. As per the DLCA’s annual performance plan for the 2021/22 financial year, the machine has never produced cards at this rate before. The forecasts for the 2022/23 and 2023/24 financial years show a maximum rate of 208,000 cards per month. MyBroadband reached out to the Road Traffic Management Corporation and DoT for comment but it had not answered our queries by the time of publication. This raises the question of whether it is even possible to produce the 350,000 cards a month required to clear the backlog and how increased production will affect the printer’s longevity. The latter is a concern as the driver’s licence renewal bottleneck was further exacerbated in November 2021 when the printing machine broke down and had to be sent to Germany for repairs. The Automobile Association of South Africa revealed that the country had only one driver’s licence card printer, meaning production halted once the machine broke down. Mbalula announced that South Africa would be getting a new driver’s licence card and printing machine, but this has since been delayed until October 2023.