Hisense has launched a great promotion in South Africa: buy any Hisense Laser TV and get a capsule coffee machine valued at R2,000 for free. You will also stand a chance to win an awesome VIP movie experience to the value of R10,000. The free coffee machine up for grabs is a stunning Hisense HCM20CDSL Capsule Coffee Machine. It has an instant-heating boiler with precise temperature control and an ergonomic design for easy operation. The Hisense Capsule Coffee Machine brews high-quality coffee with great taste and is compatible with well-known coffee capsule brands. Ten lucky Hisense customers who buy a Laser TV will also win a VIP cinematic concierge experience in the comfort of their own home, which includes: The TV will be set up by Hisense for you and your family to enjoy, and is an experience not to be missed. The free coffee machine and chance to win a cinematic experience is available when you buy any Hisense Laser TV listed below: Hisense Laser TVs use an Ultra-Short Throw Projector to cast an image onto an Ambient Light Rejecting (ALR) screen. The ALR screen protects your eyes, as the image is reflected onto the screen first, rather than being projected directly towards your eyes as with traditional TVs. This reduces eye strain and allows for extended watching periods. Additionally, Hisense’s Laser TV technology produces an incredible 4K picture with over 1 billion colours and far surpasses the viewing experience of traditional projectors with a bright display – even in sunlight-flooded rooms. Size is another strength of the Hisense Laser TVs, as you get the visual experience of a normal TV, but on a display that is between 88-inches and 120-inches – providing a true home theatre experience. This promotion from Hisense is available until 31 December 2022, and Hisense will honour giveaways attributed to purchases from 1 March 2022. You can expect your Hisense coffee machine to be delivered within seven days of purchasing your Hisense Laser TV. Competition draws for the cinematic experience will then take place on 31 March, 30 April, 31 May, 30 June, 31 July, 31 August, 30 September, 31 October, 30 November, 31 December 2022 – so follow Hisense South Africa on Facebook to see the announcements. Follow Hisense South Africa on Facebook. Click here to learn more about Hisense’s Laser TVs now. Laser TV Promotion Terms and Conditions.