Disney+ pre-registrations are open in South Africa, with an introductory one-year subscription for R950 on offer. The video streaming service is scheduled to launch on 18 May 2022 for R119 per month or R1,190 per year. “Fans can register their interest to subscribe to Disney+ in South Africa to take advantage of an exclusive introductory offer,” the Walt Disney Company stated. “The offer means fans can enjoy 12 months of Disney+ for the price of 8.” Walt Disney confirmed Disney+’s launch dates in 42 new countries and 11 new territories, including South Africa, at the end of March. The company also previously confirmed that its Disney+ service in South Africa would include the Star content hub when it launches. Star features TV shows and movies aimed at adult audiences instead of the more family-oriented and franchise-based content elsewhere on Disney+. The Star hub is populated with programming drawn from Disney subsidiaries such as FX, Freeform, Hulu, ABC Signature, 20th Television, 20th Century Studios, Searchlight Pictures, Touchstone Pictures, and Hollywood Pictures. In the UK, this includes shows like Alias, Blackish, Bones, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Grey’s Anatomy, Prison Break, The X-Files, 24, and Firefly. On the main Disney+ service subscribers will have access to Star Wars’ “The Book of Boba Fett”, “The Mandalorian”, and “Obi-Wan Kenobi” from 27 May. In addition, the Marvel Studios series “Moon Knight” and Oscar-nominated “Shang-Chi and the Legend of The Ten Rings” will both be available at launch. Subscribers will also have access to Disney and Pixar’s catalogue of family-friendly content, includeing “Luca”, “Encanto”, and “Cruella” From National Geographic, “The World According To Jeff Goldblum” and Oscar-winning “Free Solo” will be available to view. Disney+ offer up to four concurrent streams, 4K video quality for select titles, and the ability to set up to seven different profiles. This includes the ability for parents to set kids profiles to access age-appropriate content. To sign up for the promotional launch offer, Disney provided the following instructions: