You never know what direction your career will take. It may follow the path you’ve planned or can take an unexpected turn. The North-West University (NWU) strives to prepare its students for wherever their professional career path may lead. Our students benefit from great academic choice and flexibility within a supportive and responsive learning environment that is enhanced by advanced technological resources. As students recently returned to the campuses, the University moved to the next stage of teaching and learning. The NWU piloted a hybrid-flexible approach that enables students to attend classes simultaneously face-to-face and through online teaching and learning. Students at the NWU also join a community that gives them the opportunity for greatness. Nadia van der Merwe, who is studying towards a BSocSc degree in psychology and anthropology, recently won the prestigious Mandela Rhodes Scholarship after her lecturer told her about it. With the help of our world-class lecturers, students can take on any academic challenge. An NWU education is about students enjoying their journey, getting a degree of the highest academic quality, and receiving the necessary support to make an impact in the world. Our graduates’ impact can be seen locally and internationally. Shaun Frazao, chief strategy officer of Wavemaker South Africa and an NWU graduate, recently moved to London as a strategy partner at Wavemaker Worldwide. Wavemaker is one of the five largest media agency networks in the world. His new role will require him to develop strategies for pitches and global clients, and to assist in developing global strategy products. Locally, three NWU alumni have been chosen to make a difference in their industry by serving on the board of Women in Nuclear South Africa (WiNSA). WiNSA aims to promote the meaningful participation of women in the fields of nuclear technology, safety, and non-proliferation. The President of WiNSA, also an NWU alumnus, Tebogo Motlhabane, believes the alumni “are seasoned professionals in the nuclear industry” who will “contribute to the growth of WiNSA.” NWU alumnus, Oratile Mokgwetsi, also highlighted the impact of NWU excellence by obtaining five awards as part of a team working on several of Nando’s digital marketing campaigns. She received an Apex Award for assisting in Nando’s e-commerce platforms, an IAB Bookmark Award and a Loerie Award for the Nando’s app, and another Bookmark and a Loerie Award for Nando’s load-shedding campaign. Our graduates are not only sought-after employees but leaders in their field. That’s why students who want to thrive in the world of work, choose North-West University. For more information visit: www.nwu.ac.za.