In celebration of 127 years of cinema in South Africa, Ster-Kinekor is offering a big deal on movie tickets for one day only. On Tuesday, 19 April 2022, moviegoers can buy two tickets for a regular 2D screening at one of Ster-Kinekor’s cinemas for R97.00, working out to R48.50 per person. Ster-Kinekor Club members can normally get a 50% discount on their movie tickets every Tuesday. Ster-Kinekor’s ticket prices vary depending on the cinema and type of show, but a 2D ticket now costs around R98.00, which means the Tuesday price for SK Club members is typically R49.00. However, for today only, there is also a special 127th Birthday Combo available at just R30.00. This includes one large popcorn and two regular drinks. For reference, a regular combo with one popcorn, drink, and a box of sweets will generally cost you R90.00. While Cine Prestige and Imax shows are not included in the ticket pricing promotion, MyBroadband confirmed the special pricing on the snack combo is available for these screenings. It’s recommended that those interested in taking up these offers book via Ster-Kinekor’s website or mobile app, as these channels show when a theatre might be affected by this week’s load-shedding. According to Ster-Kinekor, South Africa was introduced to the cinema on 19 April 1895. That was when the first kinetoscopes opened to the public at Herwoods Arcade on Pritchard and President Streets in Johannesburg. Later, more were introduced at the Empire Palace of Varieties on Commissioner Street. By 1910, a dedicated bioscope had been opened in Durban. After decades of operating their cinemas separately, the Ster and Kinekor theatres merged in 1970 to form Ster-Kinekor. Ster-Kinekor started its digitisation process in 2008, which saw the introduction of 3D cinema to South Africa. The year after that, James Cameron’s record-breaking Avatar debuted and became the highest-grossing movie of all time. But Ster-Kinekor and other cinemas’ have had their lunch eaten by video streaming services in recent years. In light of the Covid-19 pandemic and the limitations it has placed on public gatherings, many major film studios, including Walt Disney and Warner Bros., have launched their movies on streaming platforms and at the cinemas simultaneously. Ster-Kinekor took a beating due to the closing down of its cinemas for several weeks of the initial lockdown, followed by periods of limited operation during which it had to curb the allowed numbers at its theatres. In recent years, it has also been blasted over expensive ticket prices, which are now around the same price as an entire month of Netflix. The company only recently announced the approval of a business rescue plan which will see it taken over by investors Blantyre Capital and Greenpoint Capital.