Lenovo has released security updates for over 100 laptop models that contain critical security vulnerabilities within their Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) drivers. The manufacturer published a list of affected models on its website. If your device is on the list, you should install the necessary updates as soon as possible. Ars Technica reported that over a million laptops contain three security vulnerabilities that attackers could exploit to modify the computer’s UEFI. UEFI is the first piece of software that runs as soon as any modern PC boots up, as it lets a computer’s hardware interact with its operating system. Malware that modifies devices’ firmware can be almost impossible to remove or detect since the UEFI is housed in a serial peripheral interface (SPI) flash chip on the motherboard. Two of the vulnerabilities, CVE-2021-3971 and CVE-2021-3972, come from UEFI firmware drivers meant to be used exclusively in pre-production Basic Input/Output System (BIOS) images. Lenovo engineers reportedly accidentally included these drivers without properly deactivating them. Therefore, attackers could use them to disable protections that prevent unauthorised changes to the firmware, like UEFI secure boot, BIOS control register bits, and protected range registers. While analysing the initial two security threats, researchers from security firm ESET found the third vulnerability, CVE-2021-3970. This lets attackers run malicious firmware when a device enters system management mode — a high-privilege mode usually reserved for hardware manufacturers for low-level system management. However, for someone to exploit these three vulnerabilities, they would require control of a user account with administrator privileges. There have been several other documented cases of attackers using malicious UEFI firmware to access devices. Russian state hacker group Fancy Bear used LoJax to create a backdoor in computers’ firmware. Similarly, Kaspersky discovered UEFI malware on diplomatic figures’ computers in Asia using new firmware scanner technology.