CURA Software is celebrating its 20th anniversary giving back with a #MakingAnImpact campaign. To kick off the campaign, CURA is running a competition where one small business in the ICT sector stands a chance to win a R10,000 cash prize and a further R10,000 worth of regulatory compliance consulting hours from CURA’s legal partner, Africa NewLaw. This will help the winning business stay on top of the latest compliance requirements and embark on a sustainable business journey. To enter the competition, participants must use this link to submit a 1 minute video that outlines the most challenging risk they face as a small business owner, as well as how the competition prize would be beneficial to their business. Winners will be announced by 30 June 2022, and you can follow CURA on LinkedIn to stay on top of competition announcements. Throughout its 20-year existence, CURA has achieved incredible growth by expanding its operations across the world – including in Australia, Europe, India, Malaysia, and the USA. Despite this global expansion, CURA has retained a tight-knit company culture – which has ensured the company remains incredibly agile by establishing a model of sustainable growth. This agility makes it easy for CURA to innovate and improve upon its Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance (GRC) solutions – ultimately benefiting its customers across South Africa and the world. CURA is proud of its achievements, which have been recognised through 20 awards. Watch the video below to learn more. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> CURA has chosen to run this competition with their legal partner, Africa NewLaw, as they believe that compliance is a vital factor when it comes to surviving as a small business. Data from Cova Advisory shows that five out of seven South African SMMEs fail within their first year, and this highlights how challenging starting a business can be. “One of the reasons businesses can fail is due to the financial implications faced because of non-compliance,” said CURA. These expenses are incurred because small businesses often overlook compliance, as they may not have the resources to access good regulatory compliance content and advisory services. CURA therefore believes it is crucial for emerging businesses to avoid expensive surprises by treating compliance as a key focus area. “When it comes to funding and investment opportunities for business growth, compliance is a non-negotiable consideration,” said CURA. This is why CURA is giving a small business the opportunity to gain not only a financial boost but also much needed access to world class regulatory compliance professionals at Africa NewLaw. Follow CURA’s LinkedIn to stay on top of campaign announcements.