The Competition Commission of South Africa has recommended that its Tribunal approve Digital Realty Trust’s acquisition of Teraco, with conditions. Reports of the planned acquisition first surfaced in early January 2022, following which Digital Realty confirmed it planned to buy a majority stake in Teraco. At the time, it valued South Africa’s biggest data centre company at approximately $3.5 billion (R52 billion). In a statement on Tuesday, the Competition Commission said it found the proposed transaction was “unlikely to result in a substantial prevention or lessening of competition in any relevant markets”. However, it also determined it was likely to negatively impact the greater spread of ownership. As a result, Digital Realty and Teraco agreed that employees would be given shares in the new entity. “In order to address this concern, the merging parties have agreed to the imposition of a condition that would ensure that the merged entity maintains the current B-BBEE Trust and further, introduce an employee share ownership plan in the merged entity,” the commission stated. The Competition Commission added that Digital Realty was currently not active and did not undertake any business activities in South Africa. Teraco operates seven data centres in Johannesburg, Durban, and Cape Town, providing space for cloud providers, network and telecoms providers, managed services providers, enterprises, financial services and content providers. In addition to the rentable floor and cabinet space, it also provides auxiliary infrastructure services such as monitoring power, cooling, humidity security, ancillary building systems and limited non-technical support. The company recently completed Phase 1 of CT2, a new hyperscale data centre in Brackenfell, Cape Town. That facility is now the largest data centre in the Western Cape, providing 25,000m2 of building structure, 25,000m2 of data hall space, and 18MW of critical power load. Digital Realty is a San Francisco-headquartered real estate investment trust that invests in carrier-neutral data centres and offers colocation and peering services, similar to what Teraco offers. It competes with digital infrastructure real investment trusts like American Tower Corp and Equinix Inc. As of April 2022, Digital Realy had a market capitalisation of $42.11 billion, or around R626 billion.