South African insurers have said they will not reject accident claims from motorists who can’t renew expired driver’s licences. They have also assured that if the Department of Transport extends licence expiry dates to ten years, it will not affect insurance premiums. The driver’s licence situation in South Africa has left a backlog of applications, and many may be wondering how the logjam — and proposed new licences — will affect their car insurance. One of the primary causes of the backlog is that South Africa only has one 20-year-old printer for driver’s licences, and it broke down in November. The printer was sent to Germany to be repaired and is expected to return to South Africa in March. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula has also announced that South Africa will get new driver’s licences and a new printing machine. In the interim, the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) proposed extending the validity period for driving licences from 5 to 10 years. MyBroadband reached out to King Price, Hollard, and Auto & General for insight into how these issues affect claims and future car insurance premiums. “An expired drivers license due to your renewal in the backlog will not affect your cover,” said King Price client experience partner Wynand van Vuuren. Van Vuuren explained that the most important aspect of a claim was the “causal link”. For instance, worn tyres can lead to a rejected claim. However, if your tyres are worn and someone drives into you while you are stationary, an insurer cannot refute your claim as there was no causal link between your tyres being worn and the accident. “By the same token, if your licence disk has expired, and an accident occurs, or your vehicle is stolen, insurers will have to pay those claims, as the licence would not be material to the incident,” Van Vuuren said. “Just make sure the vehicle is always roadworthy, and there are no additional factors that can cause or contribute to an accident,” he added. Hollard explained that administrative issues would not affect car insurance claims, but it does urge its policyholders to try to secure an appointment to renew their licence. “Our Claims Department would be more willing to assist if an appointment has already been made for the licence renewal, or if the delay is in receiving the actual licence and proof can be provided that the application has been processed and the delay is simply in waiting for the card,” it said. Hollard added that valid proof of a licence would need to be submitted for a claim to be entertained. “Where a licence has been suspended or cancelled, and the driver must retake their learner’s/driver’s test, or if there is no valid proof of a licence in the required format, an insurance claim would not be entertained,” it said. “But a failure of the bureaucratic process when a client has a valid licence would be considered when processing a claim, and each claim will be accessed on its own merit.” South Africa is one of the only countries with short validity periods for driver’s licences. As a solution to the backlogs, Outa proposed that transport minister Fikile Mbalula change the driver’s license validity period from five to 10 years. “The renewal of a driver’s licence is essentially an administrative process and not a test of a person’s ability to drive,” Hollard told MyBroadband. “The extension of the validity period will not affect premiums — the important issue is that the driver has a valid licence, not how long it takes to renew the card proving this.” Auto & General agreed. “The period of validity won’t have an impact. How long drivers have been licensed to drive does, however, have an impact,” it said.