The top-performing technology shares on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) in 2021 were MTN, Ellies, and Alviva, while the worst-performing companies were Labat Africa, Huge Group, and EOH. The JSE performed particularly well in 2009, with South African shares recording their best year since 2009. The JSE all-share index reached a record high last year because of optimism about a global rebound from the pandemic and increased demand for commodities. Mining giants, Anglo American and BHP Group, were major contributors to the gains, along with Sasol, whose fortune is linked to oil prices. Richemont was the biggest single driver for the South African gauge this year in terms of index points. The Johannesburg shares of the luxury retailer climbed by a record 84% as the sector was buoyed by resilient pandemic sales and bullish prospects for 2022. ArcelorMittal South Africa was the biggest local gainer, surging almost ninefold in 2021. Bullion producer DRDGold fared the worst, sliding 27%. When it came to local tech shares, the performance was equally impressive. MTN and Ellies, which increased by 184% and 173%, respectively, were the pick of the bunch. Other top performing shares include Alviva (79%), Telkom (76%), Alaris (68%), Adapt IT (61%), Mustek (58%), and Datatec (57%). The table below provides an overview of the top-performing South African technology shares over the last year. Big tech companies in the United States continued their strong growth with a third straight winning year in 2021. Tech giants like Apple and Microsoft continued to see strong demand almost regardless of the economic environment. Five of the market’s most notable Internet and technology names — Apple, Microsoft, Alphabet, Amazon, and Facebook — rose this year. While their 2021 performances varied from Alphabet’s 65% surge to Amazon’s 2.4% slog, the group collectively added more than $2.45 trillion in market valuation. Microsoft, Apple and Alphabet were among the three biggest contributors to the S&P 500 Index’s 2021 gains. The table below provides an overview of the performance of the world’s largest technology companies. Reporting with Bloomberg