Buying a car (unless you’re buying cash) comes with a great deal of paperwork – and we know what that means – terms and conditions. The majority of South African car buyers fail to understand vehicle after-sales plans, the differences between the three, nor even know what plan they signed up for. If you’re thinking of, or in the process of buying a car, this quick and easy guide will help you understand the difference between a service plan, a maintenance plan, and a motor warranty. There’s no need to get complicated in order to make the right buying decisions, all you need is a little basic knowledge. New cars usually come with a service plan valid for a period of time typically between three to five years or 50,000 to 100,000km, but this varies depending on the car model and the manufacturer. Second hand cars usually come with the balance of their original service plan, and can be extended beyond the initial term date should you wish. A more comprehensive option than the service plan, typically, a maintenance plan covers wear and tear, mechanical and electrical components, and routine servicing. Often included when you buy a new car, they are valid for a specified period, but you can purchase a maintenance plan separately or choose to extend it. If you buy a second hand car and it is still covered under the original maintenance plan, the cost will be built in. A warranty is different from a service or maintenance plan because this is a manufacturer’s guarantee that the parts of the vehicle you bought are in proper working order, correctly fitted, and won’t give you problems. So while the former two deal with the normal wear and tear of a car over time, a motor warranty deals with mechanical defects or improper installation that occurs at factory level. If parts fail or malfunction, the warranty covers you for the cost of labour and parts. Automotive plans differ between insurance providers, and so do the conditions and requirements of car manufacturers. Before signing on the dotted line, make sure that you’ve been sold the motor insurance plan suitable for your needs, that you understand fully what’s covered and what isn’t, how to claim, how claims are paid, and what the limits are. Be sure to read the fine print. Brought to you by Budget Insurance Car Insurance. Disclaimer: This content is for informational, educational, or entertainment purposes only. We do not make any warranties about the completeness, reliability, and accuracy of the content. The views and opinions are those of the author and not necessarily those of the company.