Vodacom has filed papers in the Pretoria High Court to oppose Telkom’s application for an urgent interdict against the spectrum auction that industry regulator Icasa wants to hold on 8 March 2022. Telkom approached the Pretoria High Court last week Tuesday to block the Independent Communication Authority of South Africa (Icasa) from going through with the auction. Radio frequency spectrum is the raw network capacity that cellular network operators use to communicate between mobile devices and their towers. South Africa’s mobile network operators, including Telkom, have long maintained that releasing additional spectrum will help reduce prices, increase coverage, and improve network quality. However, Telkom said that there are major problems with Icasa’s spectrum licensing process: Communications minister Khumbudzo Ntshavheni, Rain, and MTN have filed papers opposing Telkom’s application. Vodacom spokesperson Byron Kennedy said that they filed notice on Monday afternoon to oppose the first part of Telkom’s legal challenge — which is the interdict. Part A of Telkom’s legal challenge also asks for an order to expedite Part B. Part B asks for a court order declaring Icasa’s decisions to publish the spectrum auction and defer the licensing of the WOAN unlawful. Telkom also asked the court to issue an order forcing Icasa to go back to the drawing board, as follows: Vodacom noted that it did not oppose Part B of Telkom’s application that asks the court to rule on the merits of these issues. “We remain committed to an expedited and fair spectrum auction process,” Vodacom spokesperson Byron Kennedy said in an e-mailed statement on Tuesday. Kennedy said they had provided guidance to Icasa in their written submissions to the regulator’s 2021 Information Memorandum consultations. He added that Vodacom also continues to engage stakeholders as the operator works toward a successful auction. “As we have said previously, the award of new spectrum is a critical part of reducing input costs and the cost of data in South Africa.”