South African technology journalist and software developer Paul Furber has denied that he is behind the mass global political movement QAnon. Furber’s denial comes after the New York Times reported that two teams of forensic linguists concluded that he is behind early messages from QAnon’s kingpin, Q. Furber is well known in South Africa’s technology industry, and many journalists who were his peers have fond memories of him and his work, especially the charitable work he did in the space. QAnon began on the anonymous imageboard 4chan when an account identifying itself as “Q Clearance Patriot” claimed that Hillary Clinton was about to be arrested. However, Q soon moved to a different imageboard called 8chan, where they continued to post cryptic “Q drops” for followers to decode. One of the core conspiracies fuelled by Q is that the United States’ political and social elite are a cabal of Satan-worshipping child sex traffickers and cannibals. QAnon supporters also believe that former US President Donald Trump was cracking down on this cabal, and that there was a conspiracy to depose him as a result. To try and unmask the authors of these Q drops, Swiss startup OrphAnalytics and French computational linguists Florian Cafiero and Jean-Baptiste Camps conducted stylometric analyses on Q’s posts. According to the researchers, they compared over 100,000 words contained in Q’s posts to at least 12,000 words by each of thirteen different writers. Academics used similar techniques to identify that Harry Potter author JK Rowling had written “Cuckoo’s Calling” under a pseudonym. Cafiero said they found that, at first, most “Q drops” were written by Furber. However, Furber’s text signature decreased during the first few months and was overtaken by another player in the drama — Ron Watkins. The analyses appear to confirm allegations in the 2020 Reply-All podcast episode “Country of Liars”. The podcast interviews 8chan creator Fredrick Brennan, who believes that Furber created Q. Brennan said that Q was later hijacked by Ron Watkins, an 8chan board administrator and the son of businessman Jim Watkins. Jim Watkins acquired 8chan from Brennan in 2014. Brennan said that following the acquisition, he grew concerned about the toxicity on 8chan and in 2016 tried to get Watkins to shut the site down. He ultimately quit 8chan but continued to work for Watkins on an older project, 2channel, which Watkins allegedly seized from its creator and original owner. “He’s not a maker; he’s a taker. He took 2channel. He took 8chan. And now he’s taken Q. It’s a pattern with him,” Brennan stated. Ron Watkins is running for the United States House of Representatives (Congress) as a Republican in Arizona’s 1st congressional district. When asked about Watkins’s alleged hijack of Q, Furber pointed MyBroadband to his book, Q: Inside the Greatest Intelligence Drop in History. In a chapter titled “The Hijack”, Furber said that it took over two years of digging, including a conversation with Brennan, before he realised that the Watkins father-son team had deliberately hijacked the Q operation to drive traffic to 8chan. Furber believes that while the fake Q posted a lot of nonsense after the hijack, someone occasionally fed them real information. “Despite my whining from the sidelines, the Q movement was gaining real traction. It had taken on a life of its own,” Furber wrote. “I eventually realised that we were in for a much longer haul than I had been assuming in January 2018, possibly even another couple of years. And President Trump wasn’t going to alienate a passionate part of his support base by disavowing Q in any way. If he could bite his tongue for the greater good then I sure could too.” Watkins and Furber have both denied being Q. Furber said that you wouldn’t find his name or his nickname — Baruch the Scribe — anywhere on 4chan during the period when Q posted there. “For starters, I had a full-time job working as a DevOps guy… during the first three months of Q’s drops on 4chan and 8chan /cbts/,” Furber told MyBroadband. CBTS is an acronym for “calm before the storm”, and /cbts/ refers to the boards Furber operated on 4chan and 8chan. Furber invited MyBroadband to confirm his employment at a prominent education technology company in Pretoria, where he had handled DevOps at the time. MyBroadband contacted the company, which confirmed Furber was employed there until 2018. The company has requested that it not be mentioned in articles relating to Furber. “During that time, I developed a multithreaded daemon for them to simulate a live TCP connection over MQTT messages — something that hasn’t been done before, I believe,” Furber stated. “It was bloody hard to get right, and I only got it working in the first week of December 2017.” Furber said he would come home and browse 4chan to see the latest drops from Q. “I consider wasting other people’s time to be a shooting offence.” Furber also holds firm that the original Q provided “hardcore proofs” that he was who he said he was by successfully predicting the Saudi coup in November 2017, putting out a hit on Lynn de Rothschild that failed, predicting Trump’s tweets, and predicting the Pope’s alteration to the Lord’s prayer. Reply-All pokes fun at the claim that Q predicted the change to the Lord’s prayer. At the end of a series of posts on 14 November 2017, Q included the King James version of the Lord’s prayer. In December 2017, the Pope suggested that the line “lead us not into temptation” should be translated differently to avoid implying that God induces people to sin. The Pope approved the change in June 2019 to “do not let us fall into temptation”. It should be noted that Q’s post includes the original line with no clear prediction that the Pope would modify it. To further refute the claims that he is Q, Furber said he did his own stylometric analysis of the Q drops and compared it to his writing using the stylo package in R. “The green cluster is a selection of pieces written for Brainstorm, the book.md is the first eight chapters of [my book], and qtext is the first 400 Q drops,” he explained. “I’ll be writing a Substack piece about this analysis and showing all my working, unlike the ‘scientists’ who used ‘deep learning’ to discover I was Q.” Furber provided MyBroadband with a lengthy response to the New York Times article (NYT). It is published here in its entirety. NYT: The outlandish claim made perfect sense to Mr. Furber, a South African software developer and tech journalist long fascinated with American politics and conspiracy theories, he said in an interview. He still clung to “Pizzagate,” the debunked online lie that liberal Satanists were trafficking children from a Washington restaurant. He was also among the few who understood an obscure reference in the message to “Operation Mockingbird,” an alleged CIA scheme to manipulate the news media. Furber: Pizzagate has not been debated in the media in any shape or form, let alone debunked. Operation Mockingbird is a matter of public record. [Editor’s note: Furber linked to infogalactic.com. We replaced it with a link to Wikipedia.] NYT: The studies provide the first empirical evidence of who invented the toxic QAnon myth, and the scientists who conducted the studies said they hoped that unmasking the creators might weaken its hold over QAnon followers. Furber: What studies? Where are they published? Can anyone get the data and reproduce the result for themselves? If not, then these people are not practicing science. I’ve done my own forensic linguistics analysis which shows that I didn’t write the Q drops. I’ll be making my data and results available for anyone who wants to check. None of this explains quite how I personally managed to predict the Saudi upheaval, to take original photos from Air Force One, to put out a hit on Lynn de Rothschild, to know the internal workings of the Vatican, to know in advance what the President would be tweeting and to string 4chan /pol/ along for six hundred threads all while having a full time job on the other side of the world. NYT: Instead of relying on expert opinion, the computer scientists used a mathematical approach known as stylometry. Practitioners say they have replaced the art of the older studies with a new form of science, yielding results that are measurable, consistent and replicable. Sophisticated software broke down the Q texts into patterns of three-character sequences and tracked the recurrence of each possible combination. Their technique does not highlight memorable, idiosyncratic word choices the way that earlier forensic linguists often did. But the advocates of stylometry note that they can quantify their software’s error rate. The Swiss team said its accuracy rate was about 93 percent. The French team said its software correctly identified Mr. Watkins’s writing in 99 percent of tests and Mr. Furber’s in 98 percent. Furber: Very impressive. Let’s see the data. Give it all to me so I can fire up R and stylo and check for myself. Otherwise, what do they have to hide? Did they take any of the 300+ available articles from Brainstorm online for a completely neutral analysis or did they cherry pick long Twitter threads where I interpret Q drops? Did they feed in my entire book about Q and leave in all of Q’s posts? What a crock of sh*t. NYT: “I’d buy it,” said Patrick Juola of Duquesne University, a mathematician who identified Ms. Rowling as the author of “Cuckoo’s Calling.” “What’s really powerful is the fact that both of the two independent analyses showed the same overall pattern,” Dr. Juola added. Furber: This hurts. I’ve used Juola’s tool JGAAP quite a few times before for forensic linguistic purposes.