The world is online and social. According to stats released in early 2022, there are over 4.5 billion active social media users globally – active, meaning users that frequently use social media platforms. Over half of the total world population, 58 %, is on social media. These numbers make sense, given the number of statuses and video uploads on platforms such as TikTok. It is reported that, on average, most active social media users spend two and a half hours on social media daily. As an educational institution, trends and the demand for jobs are paramount in deciding the type of qualifications we offer. Offering IIE qualifications that make students employable is essential to ensuring that students have the chance to pursue their dream careers. The IIE Diploma in Digital Marketing is on offer at IIE Rosebank College campuses in 2022, we also have the IIE Higher Certificate in Digital Marketing, which equips students with the necessary skills to access entry-level digital marketing jobs on completion – allowing students to start with a higher certificate and progress to the Diploma. This IIE qualification is ideal for creative thinkers, innovators, and problem solvers. Graduates of The IIE Diploma in Digital Marketing course will be equipped with diverse skills such as data analysis, social media marketing, search engine optimization (SEO), email marketing, digital advertising, content creation, and basic design skills. This makes them ideal candidates for positions such as digital marketing specialists or social media community managers. With more and more organizations moving their brands online, the demand for digital skills continues to soar. With the current global economy, data-driven marketing is essential for brands to optimize their budgets online and reach the right customers. The need for affordable, accredited digital marketing courses to enrich businesses has also increased. Digital marketing is not just about creating digital adverts or creating Facebook and Instagram posts; it involves planning, targeting, budgeting, strategizing, implementing, and measuring. An excellent digital marketing course must equip graduates with the right skills and business acumen. Graduates of digital qualifications will need to reinvent themselves as the digital space is fast-paced and constantly changing. 2022 Applications are open at IIE Rosebank College.