MyBroadband Tech Inflation Index revealed that technology and telecommunications prices declined over the past year. South Africa’s consumer price index (CPI) tracks the prices of a basket of goods and services to calculate inflation in the country. Statistics South Africa’s latest consumer price index, released in January, showed that annual headline inflation jumped to 5.9% in December 2021. Stats SA said this was the highest annual increase since March 2017, when the inflation rate was 6.1%. While Stats SA’s CPI contains a few technology-related items like TV licenses, it does not accurately reflect how tech prices changed in the country. Instead, South Africa’s inflation rate is focused on a basket of general products and services. MyBroadband has now created a tech inflation index to track how the price of technology and telecoms products change year on year. The tech inflation index uses the same categories as international models, which include: Each of these categories includes a basket of prominent items, like smartphones, computer hardware and peripherals, telephony hardware, the price of DStv, and the latest video games. These categories are weighted equally for the final index value. Prices are then compared year on year. For this article, MyBroadband compared the price of tech products from January 2021 to January 2022. MyBroadband Tech Inflation Index showed that tech products in South Africa are now, on average, cheaper than they were a year ago. The decline in prices is mainly a result of the decrease in the price of Internet services and software. The overall index is down 4.2% to 4.79 from the baseline value of 5 at the start of 2021. Computers, peripherals, and smart home assistant devices have increased in price, partly due to the weaker rand. Computer software and accessories have decreased in price, while the cost of Internet services have also declined. The table below provides an overview of how IT and telecommunications prices changed over the past year.