The South African government has said that Eskom needs to sell off assets, including some of its coal-fired power stations, before receiving further bailouts to help deal with its R392-billion debt. Even selling the still unfinished Medupi and Kusile power stations is on the table, but, according to Rapport, the utility is having none of it. Finance minister Enoch Godongwana announced on Wednesday that the government plans to restructure Eskom’s debt before South Africa’s next general elections in 2024. However, Eskom would only receive further government support if it sold assets and cut jobs. “We expect Eskom to take further steps towards cost containment, conclude the sale of assets and implement operational improvements to enhance the reliability of electricity supply,” Godongwana stated. In an interview with Bloomberg on Thursday, the minister also said that Eskom has “10,000 people in the system that they don’t need”. “After that, I become the last resort — I’m not saying I’m not going to help them,” said Godongwana. Finance department director-general Dondo Mogajane told Rapport that they hadn’t set any specific targets Eskom must meet before government restructures or takes over its debt. “But they will have to do something and sell some of the power stations before we can help them at all.” While Eskom claims that no one wants to buy its ageing power stations, Mogajane said they believe there are buyers, especially from countries like China. “We told them they could even sell the two newest stations — Medupi and Kusile — but for some reason, no progress is being made,” said Mogajane. Energy analyst Mike Rossouw said Eskom’s management is misleading politicians to avoid selling its older, more expensive power stations. Rossouw confirmed that Chinese companies are eager to buy Eskom’s ailing power stations. “Eskom is refusing to acknowledge that the costs of running its old power stations simply don’t make it worthwhile to cling to them,” stated Rossouw. “I agree it would be a mistake to sell Medupi and Kusile. These are new assets that will have operating costs when their teething problems are ironed out.” Rossouw believes that one of the reasons Eskom isn’t keen on selling power stations is for fear of how unions like NUM and Numsa would react. However, he also said that this is not an insurmountable obstacle. “You have to talk with the unions and reach a settlement. You can reach agreements with the new owners to retain the existing labour force, or you could transfer workers to other units within Eskom.” Rossouw said in December last year that Eskom would not be able to address its operational problems unless it disposed of its Arnot, Camden, Grootvlei, Hendrina, and Komati power stations. He said these five coal-fired power stations were so old and dysfunctional they posed a threat to the country’s energy security. Also this week, the National Energy Regulator of South Africa announced that Eskom would be allowed to increase its tariffs by 9.61% — much lower than the 20.5% for which it had asked. “The financial implications of this decision on Eskom’s long-term sustainability will need to be further understood,” said Eskom’s chief financial officer Calib Cassim. “The Eskom Board will deliberate further before deciding on how to continue to sustainably provide electricity to the extent possible in the context of this revenue decision.”