Salesforce has appointed two South African leaders and announced its expansion plans for the country. The two new leaders — Zuko Mdwaba as head of sales and Linda Saunders as head of solution engineering — are the company’s first to be based in South Africa. “I am delighted to welcome Zuko Mdwaba and Linda Saunders to Salesforce to lead our growth in South Africa by working with our customers, partners, and the broader ecosystem,” Salesforce senior area vice president for emerging markets Robin Fisher said. “Africa has a great talent pool, and we intend to collaborate closely with our partners and local institutions on programmes that provide skills and job opportunities to meet the continent’s high demand for Salesforce skills, while also recognising Africa’s potential as a global talent hub.” Saunders has extensive experience in helping organisations along their digital transformation journeys, and in her new position, she will support Salesforce customers to develop their businesses’ digital capabilities. Saunders will also take on a leadership role supporting these organisations and individuals to learn digital skills through Salesforce initiatives such as Trailhead. Mdwaba will front Salesforce’s growth and expansion in the market. He has more than 20 years of experience in leadership roles at technology companies in the country and will be Salesforce’s first South African-based executive. Before joining Salesforce, he occupied leadership roles at Atos, Oracle, SAS and Workday South Africa. “I have seen the success of Salesforce in South Africa, where adoption of cloud services has significantly accelerated over the last two years, supporting businesses to adapt to the digital world and deliver outstanding services and experiences to their customers,” Mdwaba said. According to Salesforce, it wants to expand in South Africa due to the country’s swiftly developing, youthful market. It said that it had grown its presence in the country over the past ten years, and IDC estimates revealed that it will create 31,800 new jobs and generate R77 billion in new revenue in South Africa between 2020 and 2026. “The company’s growing customer base has been fuelled by businesses accelerating their digital transformation and partnering with Salesforce,” the company said.