Mineral resources and energy minister Gwede Mantashe says the use of coal is unfairly being attacked, reports the Sunday Times. Speaking at an event in Pretoria, Mantashe said that extending the lifespan of coal mining is important, even as some try to shorten it. “We are here to discuss how we can survive that offensive and extend the life of coal mining,” said Mantashe. “We are in a situation where coal is under siege. What I am putting to you as labour and communities is that I do not hear you. Half the time, you whisper.” This follows COP26’s November 2021 pledge to provide South Africa with R130 billion in low-cost funding towards low-carbon alternatives. Mantashe argued that this figure is only one year’s income in the coal market and is insufficient to transform the industry. “When you generate R130bn in one year, my mind gallops to say we are being offered R131bn to close coal mining, and I am saying you are making that money in one year,” said Mantashe. “How do you close your projects for what you do in one year? I am not a rebel. I am raising the reality that must be in the analysis we are making.” Mantashe also explained earlier this week that he suspended a community representative from the National Nuclear Regulator’s board because they were an opponent to atomic power. Mantashe is being sued by Peter Becker, who served on this board while also being a spokesman for the Koeberg Alert Alliance until Mantashe suspended him. “You can’t be in a board of something you are working against,” Mantashe said. “You are an anti-nuclear activist. You can’t sit in the board of nuclear and get all the details of the plans and go and plan a programme against that entity. It’s not allowed.” Mantashe’s vocal support for coal and nuclear power has drawn the ire of environmental activists. However, the need for a robust power grid continues to be clear, as South Africa is yet again experiencing load-shedding. The country is currently undergoing stage 1 load-shedding, reduced from stage 2 at 21:00 on Friday. “While there has been an improvement in the generation capacity, and a significant recovery in the emergency generation reserves, caution is still called for as this is not sufficient to suspend load-shedding at this point,” Eskom said in a statement. “Eskom will continue to evaluate the system and make the necessary adjustments as soon as conditions allow.” Stage 1 load-shedding is set to end at 05:00 on Monday.