There was a significant intelligence failure to anticipate, prevent or disrupt the planned and orchestrated violence that broke out in KwaZulu-Natal during July 2021. This is according to a report prepared by an expert panel appointed by President Cyril Ramaphosa to examine the response of South Africa’s security cluster. The civil unrest erupted in Pietermaritzburg on the morning of 12 July 2021 and rapidly spread to Durban and Johannesburg following the arrest of former president Jacob Zuma. Malls, shopping centres, supermarkets, wholesalers, restaurants, warehouses, banking facilities, schools, trucks, and even blood banks were hit by looters over several days. More than 200 people died, and over 2,500 were arrested for looting and public violence. “It appears that the violence was largely enabled by social media,” the report stated. “Tweets, WhatsApp messages, Facebook, and other media were an easy way of spreading news about what was happening or about to happen.” Communities organising to defend themselves used the same tools as the rioters because they are fast, inexpensive, and efficient. “One problem is that social media is also a way of spreading false information, rumours, and sowing panic,” the experts’ report said. It commended the press for their extensive coverage of the events, often taking risks to bring what was happening to the public’s attention. “The role of traditional media, with trained and ethical journalists, was a critical factor in the information equation,” it said. “This was commendable and the alternative, of under-reporting, would have left an information gap.” Due to the extensive use of social media to orchestrate the violence, the experts said that the state could use the recently-promulgated Cybercrimes Act in future to bring perpetrators to justice. “Some have argued that if the Act had already been in operation in the period before the unrest, it might have been possible to apprehend any instigators using social media platforms,” the experts reported. The Act criminalises what it terms malicious communications. It defines three types of messages as malicious: According to the report, there were several obvious warning signs that South Africa’s intelligence community did not see or did not react to ahead of the riots. “There had been several acts of major public disorder and violence in the lead up to former President Zuma’s incarceration, [such as] firearms being discharged publicly,” the report stated. “There were increasingly emboldened calls for disruptions, on social media, including a call for a national shutdown.” In addition, several communities were aware that the riots would take place in the days leading up to the violence. “Business delegations also informed us that they had been made aware that violence was imminent,” the experts reported. “It struck us as inexplicable that the security services, and in particular the intelligence services, did not know the violence would happen and take the form that it did.” According to the report, South Africa’s intelligence structures did not use their capabilities to full effect in the lead-up to the riots. “The intelligence services have at their disposal the most intrusive of state powers, and from what we learnt did not use such powers to the extent that they could and should have, in the period leading up to the outbreak of the violence.” Another significant issue is that none of the organisers or real instigators of the violence have been apprehended. “Claims by the police minister that they had identified twelve instigators who would be brought to book, resulted in disappointment when only a handful of individuals identified based on their incendiary social media accounts were charged for incitement to violence,” the report stated. According to the report, if there is such intelligence, the President should address any systemic weaknesses that may have caused the information to escape his review. “If the President has received intelligence about the instigators, the question would be why has he not assured the nation that the government will act on this matter,” the experts said. “Consequently, to establish trust, the President must inform the public if he is on top of the situation and what they can expect with holding any culprits responsible for the violence and looting.” “In times of crisis, more than at any other time, the President must lead government in communicating a single, clear message about what is happening, why it is happening and what the government is doing to address the matter.” <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>Report of the Expert Panel into the July 2021 Civil Unrest