Massmart is concerned about posts circulating on social media indicating that there will be looting of all their stores this weekend, 26–27 February 2022. This is according to a letter from KwaZulu-Natal crime intelligence head Major-General Tso Tshika to district and section commanders in police crime intelligence. MyBroadband has seen the letter and verified its authenticity with a police source. Massmart owns Makro, Game, Builders, Cambridge, and Rhino. Tshika directed the commanders to verify and confirm the allegations of planned looting. He said that crime intelligence was only aware of a planned shutdown from All Truck Drivers Forum and Allied South Africa (ATDF ASA) this weekend in KwaZulu-Natal. ATDF Cape Town delivered a memorandum yesterday stating that foreign truck drivers are occupying their jobs illegally. Transnet also warned its stakeholders yesterday that the South African Police Service is expecting ATDF and affiliates to halt truck movements on national and provincial roads this weekend. ATDF ASA condemned the violence during the civil unrest in July last year, during which rioters looted 41 Massmart stores and significantly damaged four. However, the ATDF ASA also said it “sympathised” with the people in solidarity with former President Jacob Zuma and echoed the claim that he was incarcerated without any trial. The Constitutional Court — South Africa’s highest court — jailed Zuma for contempt. He defied an order to testify before the Zondo Commission, which probed corruption and state capture involving the infamous Gupta family. Tshika directed crime intelligence district and section commanders to verify and confirm the new threat against Massmart stores, asking them to provide feedback by 16:00 yesterday. MyBroadband contacted Massmart, which confirmed that it is aware of rumours circulating on social media regarding potential unrest that could affect retail outlets, including its stores. “As part of our security protocols, we established contact with private and police intelligence to verify the veracity of the rumours,” a spokesperson for Massmart told MyBroadband. “Our asset protection team is tracking the situation and we have, based upon industry-wide learnings from the July unrest, implemented a host of measures to secure our assets.”