The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the way we live, learn and work. According to McKinsey, the move to digital has advanced technology by several years. Life will never be the same again and the presentations at the Huawei Connect Education Summit proved exactly that. The summit took place at the Huawei Office Park, which had speakers coming forward to discuss how Huawei’s innovative products and solutions can make our lives even better. One of the most innovative solutions is the Huawei Idea Hub. This interactive, high–quality screen can be used during virtual meetings. It is great for collaboration as participants can write and draw on the smart screen. The 12 microphones and 4 speakers ensure that no one goes unheard. Finally, whatever meeting notes are made on it can be easily shared and saved for future perusal. The screen also has a projection feature that allows one to project their presentation directly from their phone or laptop. With companies cautiously bringing workers back to the office, there has never been a better time to use this technology. The Huawei Smart Campus solution offers an array of technological features that will make the transition back to the office more comfortable, fostering a more efficient workforce. The Smart Meeting solution allows one to book a boardroom for a meeting by simply scanning their phone on a pad outside the boardroom and choosing their meeting time. 5 minutes before the meeting starts, the air conditioning automatically powers on, ensuring that users have as comfortable an experience as possible. The energy-saving Smart Office will only put on the lights in the room when it senses them coming in for the meeting. Through the IoT, you can have a 3D simulation of your building that will help you virtually manage and control it. From wherever you are, you can control things like drainage, water supply, and lighting. The Smart Energy feature lets you look at how much power each system is using, down to every little socket. This helps you manage your usage and can even assist you in detecting any problems within your building. Of course, all of this high-tech equipment needs to be protected, and that’s where Smart Security comes in. Huawei Smart Security does not only record activity on your campus but it detects any possible unwanted activities like large gatherings, someone jumping over the perimeter, and scuffles on the campus. It keeps an updated library of photos, ensuring that only authorized personnel are on the campus. For any post-event analysis, this solution allows you to filter the footage for exactly what you want, saving you time, you can choose the timestamp of the incident and even filter down to the colour of the person of interest’s clothes. These innovations can only run when there is a high-speed, reliable internet connection. All that is a piece of cake with Huawei’s strong 5G. Bringing innovations such as these does not only improve the lives of those using them, but through the R7 Billion Huawei has given in bursaries, the 6000 South African students it has trained in ICT, and the $110 billion it has invested in research and development, it is improving the lives of many by giving them a seat at the table in one of the fastest-growing industries. Click here for more information on Huawei Idea Hub Solutions. By Sphumelele Ndlovu