Eskom COO Jan Oberholzer has warned that load-shedding would most likely be required tomorrow evening. Oberholzer said this is despite at least another 2,000MW of generating capacity that could be brought back online on Tuesday. This is because they would likely have to use diesel generation during the day and evening peak. The state-owned power utility has also warned it might not be able to avoid load-shedding during the state of the nation address (SONA) on Thursday, 10 February 2022. During a media briefing on Monday afternoon, the utility explained that the breakdown of seven generating units required it to implement load-shedding this evening. Shortly before the briefing, Eskom announced stage 2 load-shedding would start at 21:00 on Monday and run until 05:00 on Tuesday morning. Eskom CEO André de Ruyter said the utility had an “unacceptably high” shortfall in generating capacity. De Ruyter said Eskom did not want to run its diesel-powered emergency generation reserves overnight to replenish its pumped-storage schemes. “That’s like using one battery to charge another battery. On a net-net basis, it does not assist you in preserving your reserves overall,” De Ruyter said. Responding to questions from the media about whether the load-shedding was required to ensure sufficient capacity was available for Thursday evening’s SONA address by President Cyril Ramaphosa, De Ruyter said Eskom was only able to assure that no load-shedding would be implemented at the venue. This year, the event will occur at Cape Town City Hall due to the National Assembly at Parliament being gutted by a fire. The CEO acknowledged that historically there had been a custom whereby load-shedding was avoided across the entire country during the annual address. This time around, Eskom could not make any promises. “[Considering] where we are right now with our generation system, it’s difficult for us to give an absolute guarantee that there will not be any load-shedding during Thursday evening,” De Ruyter said. “We are really going to do our best to restore the system, not because of SONA, per se, but because we want to be a reliable supplier of electricity to the entire country.” Oberholzer also emphasised that Eskom’s issues stretched beyond technical problems with its ageing coal power fleet, with a lack of the skills at the power stations also becoming a problem. He also pointed out that Eskom was having trouble with station managers and senior executives at power stations communicating transparently on problems. For example, the Duvha power station lost all of its generation capability on Monday, despite feedback from the station manager in the morning that there were virtually no risks of outages. He was also concerned about the situation at Mathuba power station, which he had found had no coal being fed into its bunkers on Sunday. Eskom’s group head of generation, Philip Dukashe, added that the utility was looking to get in contractors to help stabilise the system’s performance. De Ruyter also said there was no evidence that sabotage was to blame for the latest round of load-shedding.