The Department of Mineral Resources and Energy has published its adjustments to South African fuel prices for March 2022. These adjustments are bad news for South Africans, as all fuel prices will rise steeply on Wednesday, 2 March. South Africans will pay R1.46 more per litre for unleaded 93 and 95 petrol, while diesel prices will rise by R1.44 and R1.48 for diesel 500ppm and 50ppm, respectively. For non-motorists, illuminating paraffin prices will also surge — by R1.21 per litre. The per-litre changes are as follows: The table below shows the new retail prices for 95 and 93 unleaded petrol compared to the current price. These increases are unsurprising given the mid-month predictions by East Cape Fuels — a petroleum supplier that provides mid-month estimates. East Cape Fuels predicted petrol and diesel price increases between R1.23 and R1.37, and rarely overestimated its numbers. The global price rise of crude oil is partially to blame for South Africa’s sharp fuel price hikes, but according to the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa), it is far from the only reason. Outa argues that combined levies on motorists — which have risen by 126% in ten years — are a big reason South Africans must pay such high prices for fuel. Despite these price hikes, there is also good news for future fuel prices in South Africa. During his 2022 budget speech, finance minister Enoch Godongwana confirmed that the General Fuel Levy (GFL) and Road Accident Fund (RAF) levy would not be increased in the 2022/23 financial year. This was done to provide tax relief worth approximately R3.5 billion to South Africans. Godongwana said he has also discussed the country’s fuel prices with energy and mineral resources minister Gwede Mantashe. “We have set up teams. The intention is to review the fuel price and its structure going forward,” said Godongwana. “The intention is to make sure that we can have a petrol price which is competitive with this economy.” The table below shows how much inland motorists with various tank sizes can expect to pay to fill up from 2 March 2022 compared to February’s prices.