Apple will launch a range of new Mac computers in 2022 that will run on its own silicon, including a 40-core version of the M1 Max and a new M2 chip. That is according to Bloomberg’s resident Apple analyst, Mark Gurman. In his latest Power On newsletter, Gurman said he expects Apple to rid its Mac line-up of Intel chips entirely in 2022. Based on information from industry insiders, Gurman reported that Apple would launch the following new Mac models during the year: According to Gurman, Apple plans to reveal at least one new Mac model on 8 March, the same day it is expected to launch the 5G iPhone SE and iPad Air. He expects that a new MacBook Pro or Mac Mini model will make its debut on the day. His sources also claim Apple will release more Macs around May or June, which he anticipates will be the new iMac Pro. “Apple will want to drum up developer support for the super-powered Mac Pro chips, so I’d guess that the company wants to debut that machine as early as the WWDC [Worldwide Developers Conference] event in June and ship it in the fall,” Gurman said. The new MacBook Air is expected to launch later in the year to capitalise on holiday season demand. Gurman said the M2’s CPU will probably be slightly faster than the M1 but should retain the same eight-core architecture. However, graphics will get a boost, with the current seven or eight cores jumping to nine or 10. He expects the Mac Pro chips should be available in two options — one that doubles the M1 Max’s capabilities and another that quadruples it. “Look for 20 CPU cores and 64 graphics cores on the first chip, and 40 CPU cores and 128 graphics cores on the second,” Gurman stated. The M2 chip is expected to get Pro and Max variants in 2023, alongside the launch of the M3. Gurman added that the use of Apple Silicon had been a significant success when looking at the company’s Mac-based revenue. “From fiscal 2011 through 2020, the Mac generated around $21 billion to $28 billion per year. In 2021? A cool $35 billion — even more than the iPad,” he explained.