The Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (Icasa) has announced that all six mobile network operators that applied for new radio frequency spectrum have qualified to participate in its auction. Spectrum is the raw network capacity cellular operators use to communicate between their towers and mobile devices. Icasa announced at the end of January that six network operators had applied for the 4G and 5G spectrum. “All six applications have passed the pre-qualification stage of the licensing process and can now participate in the planned auction stage at the beginning of March 2022,” the regulator said in a statement on Monday. The qualifying bidders are: Icasa chairperson Dr Keabetswe Modimoeng expressed his appreciation and wished all the qualified bidders well in their quest for much-needed spectrum. “The fact that all six applicants have qualified illustrates the robustness of our telecommunications sector in South Africa,” stated Modimoeng. “We can officially proclaim the forthcoming March 2022 spectrum auction as an unparalleled milestone in our country’s communications history as this will be the first-ever spectrum auction held on our shores.” Modimoeng said that Icasa commits itself to discharge this essential public-interest mandate to the very best of its ability. “We continue to confront the ongoing litigation head-on. With only two weeks remaining, we need to see selfless and responsible corporate citizenship at play,” he said. Icasa planned to hold a spectrum auction in March last year but faced legal challenges from Telkom, E-tv, and MTN. The regulator ultimately conceded defeat, went back to the drawing board, and issued a fresh invitation to apply with the hope of auctioning the sought-after 4G and 5G spectrum this year. Telkom once again filed papers in the Pretoria High Court, saying that Icasa had not adequately considered all the issues raised during its previous attempt. It agreed to remove its urgent interdict against the auction from the court roll if all parties agreed to have its case heard expeditiously. However, it reserved the right to re-enrol the interdict if Icasa didn’t delay the auction to accommodate the hearing. The Acting Judge President set the dates of the High Court showdown between Telkom and Icasa for 11–14 April 2022. Icasa has said that it will forge ahead with the auction, which is scheduled to conclude on 8 March. Despite this, Telkom has not yet relaunched its urgent interdict to block the auction. If Telkom’s wins its case against Icasa, it could nullify the auction. Communications minister Khumbudzo Ntshavheni has said that her department remains in constant dialogue with Telkom, Icasa, and other stakeholders to resolve the stand-off. Icasa said it would conduct a bidder seminar on 28 February 2022, followed by mock-auctions from 1 to 3 March 2022 with the individual bidders. “Thereafter, the auction stage will commence on 8 March 2022 with the in-person single round opt-in auction. The main online auction shall take place from 10 March 2022.” The opt-in round excludes Vodacom and MTN and allows smaller market players access to certain tranches of the spectrum without bidding against the bigger operators’ deep pockets.