Extreme Networks has signed a multi-year partnership with Manchester United Football Club to serve as the club’s official Wi-Fi network solutions and official analytics provider. “The installation of Extreme Wi-Fi 6 access points at Old Trafford will begin later this year to transform the fan experience with fast, reliable Wi-Fi connectivity and increase the club’s capability to deliver high-performance, low-latency and secure digital services.” “Additionally, Extreme will help Manchester United access real-time network analytics to drive more personalised and informed decisions around both the fan experience and overall venue operations,” says Pete Nel, Business Development Executive at Duxbury Networking, local distributors for Extreme Networking technology. “Our collaboration with Extreme Networks is an important step in our drive to enhance and modernise the in-stadium fan experience at Old Trafford, opening up exciting opportunities for the club to deliver next-generation digital services to fans on match days and to visitors throughout the year.” “Extreme will help us keep our stadium up to date while preserving the character that makes it unique.” “Providing fast, reliable Wi-Fi to fans, underpinned by cutting-edge analytics to optimise performance, is a crucial part of that process,” says Collette Roche, Chief Operating Officer, Manchester United. “Speed, precision and performance are equally important on and off the pitch, and Manchester United is investing to make the stadium experience just as impressive as the match itself.” “Extreme Networks will provide the technical DNA that will forever change the way fans experience Old Trafford.” “We believe the combination of Extreme’s Wi-Fi 6 and analytics will provide the insights and scale required to ensure success and that fans won’t miss a beat,” says Nel. Manchester United joins several other iconic venues and leagues leveraging Extreme’s solutions to improve operational efficiency and the fan experience. Extreme’s roster of customers includes the Los Angeles Coliseum, MLB, NFL, NHL and Olympiastadion Berlin. For more information contact Duxbury Networking, +27 (0) 11 351 9800, info@duxnet.co.za, www.duxbury.co.za