Most people don’t realise that cars could easily be their biggest lifetime expenditure and could even cost them more than their house. The way you go about buying, selling and owning cars can have a massive impact on your long-term wealth. For this reason, it is so important to know the best ways to buy, sell and own a car to avoid overspending on something that doesn’t provide an obvious monetary return. So how much does a car cost you over a lifetime? Here are some examples of three different car owners, each with different car-owning behaviour. All three of these owners buy their first car at 22 years of age and own a car all the way through to the age of 72. The cars are of a similar class – something that would cost around R250,000 brand new today, such as a VW Polo Vivo. However, each car owner has a very different approach to how they buy, sell and own cars: Using some simple assumptions and parameters that include car depreciation, transaction costs, average inflation, interest, maintenance costs and more, we can calculate the total cost of owning these cars. We excluded insurance, fuel and consumable parts like tyres, which would be broadly similar for all three. Our model shows that the difference in total cost over a lifetime is dramatic. After 50 years of driving, the three owners will spend the following on car ownership: These results are in today’s money. The effect is far greater if the cost savings are invested. The money saved would really compound over 50 years. An after-inflation return of 5% each year can roughly quadruple the difference in today’s money. Here are some tips for sustainable car ownership: Consumers will differ in what they are willing to spend on their cars. However, many are not aware of the extent to which it affects their wealth. You would do well if you gave a similar level of thought to the long-term financial impacts of your car ownership patterns as you would to your house or retirement fund. This article was first published on Biznews and is republished with permission.