As the CEO of the Paratus Group in Africa, this strong and unusual leader is breaking new ground in a fiercely competitive world. He’s disrupting the norms and he’s doing it with panache and passion.  Meet Barney Harmse. The telco sector in Africa is fraught with a multitude of obstacles and difficulties. Ask any of the international operators how they thought it would be easy to enter African markets and how hindsight has shown that it was anything but easy. They could learn a thing or two from Barney Harmse because, together with his co-founders and directors, he has carved the Paratus expansion path across the continent with due care and attention, and with due respect and determination. “We are on the next trajectory of our growth. We plan to double revenue within the next three to five years”, says Harmse. “I can narrow the plan to two key interventions: investing and deploying the best infrastructure; and mergers and acquisitions.” “Our focus area is Central and West Africa – they are huge markets.  We’ve just opened in DRC through a joint venture with GBS in that country, where we won a tender to activate a fiber optic cable over six hundred kilometres.” Together with his co-founders, Harmse had the vision for establishing Africa’s quality network. From a start-up 20 years ago, he has guided the group’s moves to assert Paratus as a major telco player with an impressive footprint in Africa. Owning their own infrastructure, building expert teams in seven southern African countries, and serving customers across the countries’ divides with a seamless quality network service are the cornerstones of the group’s success. Paratus also has points of presence (PoPs) in the USA, UK and Europe and provides services in more than 35 African countries; Paratus is the appointed partner to land the Equiano subsea cable in Namibia; and Paratus has already built four of its own Data Center facilities in three African countries. Harmse is a veritable stick of dynamite.  His explosive nature ignites others in a shared enthusiasm and sheer grit to push the boundaries. “We are delivering Africa’s quality network”, explains Harmse.  “We were born in Africa.  We know Africa and we know how tough you need to be in this business.” “You must also be prepared to make mistakes along the way.  We’ve made a few mistakes, but we move on quickly, and take only the lesson with us.” “Our resilience and our commitment to quality are the prevailing forces – and I believe this is what gives Paratus the winning edge.” And, in Harmse’s mind, this is only the beginning.  “When we go into new markets, we’ve learned to stick to the rules of that country and never to cut corners.” “From registration and standards certificates to tax and local legislation on every level, we do it by the book and by the laws of that country.” “That way, we are always transparent, honest, and vital because we are doing everything in the right way.” As important as quality is to Harmse, he also holds his co-founders, directors and all 500 of his employees in extremely high esteem.  He actively values them all. And he loves the fact that they work hard, play hard and are hard to beat when it comes to sheer dedication and professionalism. One leadership trait that Harmse is particularly proud of is his ability to spot talent.  “I have hand-picked our best people over the last 20 years.” “I get a definite sense about people and especially those that have the ingredients that can blend well into the Paratus mix.  I can see when it’s worth taking on someone who we can develop.” Harmse is a generous leader and one way that he and his co-directors have shown appreciation was, a few years ago, to give 30% of their shares to their staff. “That equates to a lot of personal wealth that we gave away but when it comes to the creation of wealth, we do not believe in leaving anybody behind.” “We’re all in this together and as we expand and grow, we can all share in the Paratus success story.” “As Africa’s quality network services provider, Paratus is an awesome group with an equally awesome group of people making it happen in Africa.” Harmse’s OCD nature makes him obsessed with quality.   His dogged determination sets the bar for achieving that and for never compromising on delivering the highest quality. From being a micro-manager to one who empowers his team, Harmse has developed in line with the business’s growth from a small entity to a large enterprise. His colleagues and co-directors are fully aware that he always has the bigger picture in mind and the irrepressible conviction to make it happen. They know that if anyone can lead the charge to double the size of the group within the next three years, Harmse can. A natural born disruptor, Harmse is always on the look-out for diverse and new ways of defining the company and its services. He aspires to excellence, he believes in sustainability, and he knows nothing is impossible: “There are no limits.  And that’s what we offer our customers – limitless opportunities through connectivity.” So, while he inspires people with his ‘can do’ approach, he likes to imagine that he is also terrorising his competitors. “If our competitors hate us, I’m happy because this means we’re worrying them.  It confirms that we’re getting it right and our quality service is a threat to them.” Harmse was born in the Northern Cape, South Africa and moved to Namibia when he was four years old.  For a man with this much dynamism, it’s easy to believe he was a champion wrestler in his younger days. Nowadays, when he’s not wrestling with business issues, he is a part-time gym enthusiast, a pilot, and a guest farm owner. If anyone is worth watching within the African telco industry, it is Barney Harmse.  This straight shooter knows a good thing when he sees it and he doesn’t let it go. The group’s steady success path to date is testimony to how clever the plan has been so far. Effective from 1 August 2022, Harmse will move into his new role as Group Executive Chairman, as announced in a press release issued by the company on 26 April 2022. With Harmse at the helm, the Paratus group will certainly achieve its ambitious expansion just as he has envisaged it. “We are already Africa’s quality network. We will soon be an even greater force to reckon with on the continent.” You can read more about Paratus here